---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# History of Cybersecurity

## Past Atacks

**A computer virus** commonly referred to as malware, is malicious code written to interfere with computer operations and cause damage to data and software. 

:::info
**Brain virus**  : In 1986, the Alvi brothers created the Brain virus, although the intention of the virus was to track illegal copies of medical software and prevent pirated licenses, what the virus actually did was unexpected. Once a person used a pirated copy of the software, the virus-infected that computer. Then, any disk that was inserted into the computer was also infected. The virus spread to a new computer every time someone used one of the infected disks. Undetected, the virus spread globally within a couple of months. Although the intention was not to destroy data or hardware, the virus slowed down productivity and significantly impacted business operations.

**Morris Worm** : In 1988, Robert Morris developed a program to assess the size of the internet. The program crawled the web and installed itself onto other computers to tally the number of computers that were connected to the internet. The program, however, failed to keep track of the computers it had already compromised and continued to re-install itself until the computers ran out of memory and crashed. 

:::

## Digital age attacks

In the year 2000, Onel De Guzman created the LoveLetter malware to steal internet login credentials. This attack spread rapidly and took advantage of people who had not developed a healthy suspicion for unsolicited emails. Users received an email with the subject line, "I Love You." Each email contained an attachment labeled, "Love Letter For You." When the attachment was opened, the malware scanned a user's address book. Then, it automatically sent itself to each person on the list and installed a program to collect user information and passwords.

:::info
The Equifax breach : In 2017, attackers successfully infiltrated the credit reporting agency, Equifax. 
Over 143 million customer records were stolen.The records included personally identifiable information including social security numbers, birth dates, driver's license numbers, home addresses, and credit card numbers.
:::

- **Social Engineer** is a manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain private information, access, or valuables.
   - Social media phishing: A threat actor collects detailed information about their target from social media sites. Then, they initiate an attack.
   - Watering hole attack: A threat actor attacks a website frequently visited by a specific group of users.
   - USB baiting: A threat actor strategically leaves a malware USB stick for an employee to find and install, to unknowingly infect a network. 
   - Physical social engineering: A threat actor impersonates an employee, customer, or vendor to obtain unauthorized access to a physical location.

   Social Engineerign attacks are effective because: 
   - Authority
   - Intimidation
   - Consensus/Social proof
   - Scarcity
   - Familarity
   - Trust
   - Urgency

- **Phishing** is the use of digital communications to trick people into revealing sensitive data or deploying malicious software.
  - Business Email Compromise (BEC): A threat actor sends an email message that seems to be from a known source to make a seemingly legitimate request for information, in order to obtain a financial advantage.
  - Spear phishing: A malicious email attack that targets a specific user or group of users. The email seems to originate from a trusted source.
  - Whaling: A form of spear phishing. Threat actors target company executives to gain access to sensitive data.
  - Vishing: The exploitation of electronic voice communication to obtain sensitive information or to impersonate a known source.
  - Smishing: The use of text messages to trick users, in order to obtain sensitive information or to impersonate a known source.


- **Malware** is software designed to harm devices or networks.
  - Viruses : Malicious code written to interfere with computer operations and cause damage to data and software. A virus needs to be initiated by a user.
  - Worms : Malware that can duplicate and spread itself across systems on its own.
  - Ransomware: A malicious attack where threat actors encrypt an organization's data and demand payment to restore access.
  - Spyware: Malware that’s used to gather and sell information without consent. Spyware can be used to access devices. This allows threat actors to collect personal data, such as private emails, texts, voice and image recordings, and locations.
