---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Frameworks and Controls

**Security frameworks** are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy.   
Security frameworks provide a structured approach to implementing a security lifecycle.   

**The security lifecycle** is a constantly evolving set of policies and standards that define how an organization manages risks, follows established guidelines, and meets regulatory compliance, or laws.


**Purpose of Security frameworks** include protecting personally identifiable information, known as PII, securing financial information, identifying security weaknesses, managing organizational risks, and aligning security with business goals.



## Four core component of framworks

### 1. Identifying and documenting security goals

For example, an organization may have a goal to align with the E.U.'s General Data Protection Regulation, also known as GDPR.  
GDPR is a data protection law established to grant European citizens more control over their personal data.   
A security analyst may be asked to identify and document areas where an organization is out of compliance with GDPR.


### 2. Setting guidelines to achieve security goals
For example, when implementing guidelines to achieve GDPR compliance, your organization may need to develop new policies for how to handle data requests from individual users.

### 3. Implementing security processes
In the case of GDPR, a security analyst working for a social media company may help design procedures to ensure the organization complies with verified user data requests.   
An example of this type of request is when a user attempts to update or delete their profile information.

### 4. Monitoring and communicating results
As an example, you may monitor your organization's internal network and report a potential security issue affecting GDPR to your manager or regulatory compliance officer.





## Security Controls

Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks.   
For example, your company may have a guideline that requires all employees to complete a privacy training to reduce the risk of data breaches.  
As a security analyst, you may use a software tool to automatically assign and track which employees have completed this training.

**Compliance** is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations.




## CIA triad
The CIA triad is a foundational model that helps inform how organizations consider risk when setting up systems and security policies.   
CIA stands for confidentiality, integrity, and availability.

- Confidentiality means that only authorized users can access specific assets or data. For example, strict access controls that define who should and should not have access to data, must be put in place to ensure confidential data remains safe.

- Integrity means the data is correct, authentic, and reliable. To maintain integrity, security professionals can use a form of data protection like encryption to safeguard data from being tampered with.

- Availability means data is accessible to those who are authorized to access it.


:::info Asset

An asset is an item perceived as having value to an organization.  
And value is determined by the cost associated with the asset in question.
:::


## Framework Examples

- [NIST CSF](#(#https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework))  
U.S.-based National Institute of Standards and Technology: the Cybersecurity Framework, is a voluntary framework that consists of standards, guidelines, and best practices to manage cybersecurity risk.  

Security teams use the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) as a baseline to manage short and long-term risk.

- [NIST Risk Management Framework(RMF)](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/risk-management/about-rmf)

- The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission - North American Electric Reliability Corporation (FERC-NERC)

- The Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP®)

- Center for Internet Security (CIS®)

- General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

- Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)  
  PCI DSS is an international security standard meant to ensure that organizations storing, accepting, processing, and transmitting credit card information do so in a secure environment. The objective of this compliance standard is to reduce credit card fraud. 

- The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)

- International Organization for Standardization (ISO)   
  ISO was created to establish international standards related to technology, manufacturing, and management across borders. It helps organizations improve their processes and procedures for staff retention, planning, waste, and services. 

- System and Organizations Controls (SOC type 1, SOC type 2)


**the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.**