---
layout: post
title: What is Docker?
categories: Extras
---

Docker is a PaaS product that uses OS level virtualization to deliver software in packages called containers.
It is also a social platform for us to find and share the containers which are different from virtual machines.

<!--continue-->


- A client program name Docker.
- A server program that manages a linux system.
- A program that builds containers from code.
- A service that distributes containers.
- A company that does all of above.

## What is a Container?

A container is a self-contained sealed unit of software. It contains codes, configs, processess, networking, dependencies and operating system.


### Confirm Docker installation
<pre>
$ docker        
$ docker info
</pre>


### Using Docker

#### Docker Flow : Images to containers
<pre>
$ docker images                               // list all the docker images
$ docker run -ti ubuntu:latest bash           // takes image and creates a running container containing ubuntu
  # ls
  # cat /etc/lsb-release          
  # exit
$ docker ps --format=$FORMAT                  // list running docker images in vertical format
</pre>

- Images are the fixed points.
- _docker run_ creates a running container. When we exit the container, it's still there in the stopped containers.
- to see all the containers : $ docker ps -a
- to see the last stopped container : $ docker ps -l --format=$FORMAT

#### Docker Flow : Containers to Images

Container ID and Image ID are different.

<pre>
$ docker run -ti ubuntu bash                       // creates a new running container containing latest ubuntu
$ touch Hello-World-File                          // create a new file in container
$ exit                                            // exit the container
$ docker ps -l --format=$FORMAT                   // look most recently exited container
$ docker commit [container ID]                    // makes the image out of the container id and prints image ID
$ docker tag [ImageID] [image-name-1]                 // creates repository (image) name tag
$ docker images                                   // list all the docker images
$ docker run -ti [image-name] bash                // runs the image and confirm the file we created earlier
$ docker commit [Container NAMES] [image-name-2]  // creates image name from container name escaping tag
$ docker images
</pre>

#### Run processes in containers

<pre>
$ docker run -rm  -ti ubuntu sleep 5      // starts a container, sleeps for 5, exits and gets deleted
$ docker run -ti ubuntu bash -c "sleep 3; echo all done"     // first starts container process and sleeps for 3 seconds and then echoes

$ docker run -d -ti ubuntu bash     // starts docker as detached
$ docker attach [container NAMES]   // takes back to the specified container
$ docker ps                        // list docker processes
</pre>

Also we can detach from running container using : Ctrl-p Ctrl-q

##### Running more things in container
<pre>
$ docker exec -ti [container NAMES] bash                  // starts  process called bash in an existing container 
</pre>

### Manage Containers

#### Logs
<pre>
$ docker run --name example -d ubuntu bash -c "lose /etc/password"   // creates "example" container and tries to execute command
$ docker logs example                                                //prints the logs of example container
</pre>

### Stopping and Removing Containers
<pre>
$ docker kill [container_name]        // kills container to make them stopped
$ docker rm [container_name]          // explicity removes stopped container
</pre>

### Resource Constraints

<pre>
$ docker run --memory maximum-allowed-memory image-name command  // sets memory limit

$ docker run --cpu-shares           // CPU limits related to other containers
$ docker run --cpu-quota          //  CPU limit in general

</pre>


### Note

1. Don't let containers fetch dependencies when they start.
2. Don't leave important things in unnamed stopped containers.


### Container Networking

- Programs is containers are isolated from the internet by default.
- Containers can be grouped into "private" networks.
- Who can connect to whom can be explicitly choosen.
- Expose ports to let connections in
- Private networks to connect between containers.
