---
layout: post
title: Solidity Programming
categories: Programming
---

Solidity is an object-oriented, high-level language for implementing smart contracts. Smart contracts are programs which govern the behaviour of accounts within the Ethereum state. 
<!--continue-->


- [Introduction](#section-1)
- [Arrays](#section-2)
- [Reference Types](#section-3)
- [Constructors](#section-4)
- [Input Validations](#section-5)
- [Voting on Ethereum](#section-6)
- [Mappings](#section-7)
- [Using Mappings](#section-8)
- [Control Structures](#section-9)
- [Structs](#section-10)
- [Memory and Storage](#section-11)
- [Using Structs in Solidity](#section-12)
- [Payments with smart contracts](#section-13)
- [Multi-sig Wallet](#section-14)
- [Summary](#section-15)

## 1. Introduction {#section-1}

 The following concepts of the language is necessary to dive deeper into solidity: 
- Data structures
- Control Structures
- Structs
- Constructors
- Useful methods and features
- Payments with Ethereum

We can learn this while developing these two applications on solidity:
1. Voting application - to understand the data structures
2. Multi-sig wallet application - to understand about payments with ethereum

## 2. Arrays {#section-2}

### Arrays 

Arrays are basically of 2 types :

1. Dynamic Array 

```
uint[] dynamic;  //empty array
uint[] dynamic2 = new uint[](2);  //Array of size 2

// Get the first element of the array
uint i = array[0];

//set an element
array[3] = 6;

// Get lenght of an array
uint size = array.length;

// add element at the end of the array
uint newSize = array.push(32);
```


2.  Statically-sized array

```
uint[6] array6;  // array of length 6

//can't change length
arr6.length = 10;   // INVALID

// can't add new elements
arr6.push(32);     // INVALID

// Allowed operations
uint i = array[5];  // get an element
array[6] = 9;       // set an element
uint size = array.length;   // get size of array

```
Other array types can be:

**Multi-dimensional arrays**
```
uint[][] nested;
```
**Fixed sized bytes arrays**
```
bytes1 oneByte;
bytes2 twoBytes;
bytes32 manyBytes;
```
**Dynamic bytes array**
```
bytes dynamicBytes;
```
#### Solidity Limitations

1. Cannot pass dynamic array of arrays into a public smart contract function. (so cannot pass array of strings to public method)
2. Cannot return dynamic array of arrays. (cannot return array of strings)
3. Ethereum protocol however supports the above feature. However in the experimental versions of solidty, it is supported and can be enabled in following ways:

```
pragma experimental ABIEncoderV2;

contract Foo {
    function method() public view returns(string[]){
        ...
    }
}
```

## 3. Reference Types {#section-3}

The types that we use: uint, int, bool, are all value types while there are, array, mappings and structs which are refrenece  types.
The difference between a value type and reference type is the foloowing:

- If we have an instance of a value type and assign it to a varaible, this will create a copy of this instance. So if we change the value of this copy, it doesn't change the value of original.

```
uint a = 10;
uint b = a;
b += 1;
```



- If we have an array for example, and we assign it to another array, this will not copy it automatically. Instead the orinal and the assigned one will refer to the same original array. So this means if we change the later, the referenced one is changed as well.

```
uint[] a = new unit[](2);
uint[] b = a;
b[0] = 1;
```

## 4. Constructors {#section-4}

A constructor is a method which allows us to initialize fields of a contract when it's deployed.
- It is similar to object-oriented languages.
- In solidity, we can have only one constructor.

```
contract Foo {
    string value;
 
    // can only have one constructor
    constructor(string _value){

        //Initialize a contract's field
        value = _value;
    }
}
```

## 5. Input Validation {#section-5}

Before implemmenting a smart contract, we need to learn a way to reject a bad transactions. Users can try to execute invalid transactions in following ways:
- Pass invalid parameters
- Execute invalid state transition

When we need to reject these transactions, solidity provides us with following functions:
- revert()
- require()
- assert()

When we call any of these functions, they stop a transaction and revert any changes.

#### Assert/Require

Require is usually used to verify the arguments that are passed to your method.

- For require, we need to provide a boolean expression. 
- If the expression is false, the transaction execution is stopped and all changes are reverted.
- When we use require, all unused gas at the point of when you call require will be refunded to user.
```
// verify arguments
require(optionPos < optionsCount);

require(optionPos < optionsCount, "Invalid option");
```

Assert is usually used to verify an internal state of a contract. 
- And if assert is called, it will also stop transaction execution but it will not refund remaining gas.
- The reason behind this is, if you use assert to validate some core assumptions about the state of your contract, and if this is violated, then maybe somebody is trying to hack your contract and you want to punish the attacker.
```
//Verify internal state
assert(totalVotesNum == sumOfVotes);
// Use up all remaining gases
```
#### Revert/Throw

If you call revert, it unconditionally reverts the current transaction.
- usually it is used in if-block
- so, you need to provide a boolean expression, and if that expression is true, then only  the block is executed.
- if the expression is false, then revert works similar to require; stops transaction execution, reverts all the changes and refunds the remaining gas.
```
// unconditionally revert a transaction
revert();
if(optionPos >= optionsCount){
    revert();
}

// Deprecated keyword(will be removed)
throw;
```
## 6. Voting on Ethereum {#section-6}

### Essential links

- [Solidity Documentation](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.11/)
- [Stateofthedapps](https://www.stateofthedapps.com/)