---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Cybersecurity Basics


## Cybersecurity Terms and Concepts

Cybersecurity (also known as security) is the practice of ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information by protecting networks, devices, people, and data from unauthorized access or criminal exploitation.


### Security Analyst
A security analyst or cybersecurity analyst focuses on monitoring networks for breaches. They also help develop strategies to secure an organization and research information technology (IT) security trends to remain alert and informed about potential threats. Additionally, an analyst works to prevent incidents.

- **Compliance** is the process of adhering to internal standards and external regulations and enables organizations to avoid fines and security breaches.
- **Security frameworks** are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy.
- **Security controls** are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. They are used with security frameworks to establish a strong security posture.
- **Security posture** is an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. A strong security posture leads to lower risk for the organization.
- A **threat actor**, or malicious attacker, is any person or group who presents a security risk. This risk can relate to computers, applications, networks, and data.
- An **internal threat** can be a current or former employee, an external vendor, or a trusted partner who poses a security risk. At times, an internal threat is accidental.  Other times, the internal threat actor intentionally engages in risky activities, such as unauthorized data access.
- **Network security** is the practice of keeping an organization's network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access. This includes data, services, systems, and devices that are stored in an organization’s network.
- **Cloud security** is the process of ensuring that assets stored in the cloud are properly configured, or set up correctly, and access to those assets is limited to authorized users.
- **Programming** is a process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks. For example, Automation of repetitive tasks (e.g., searching a list of malicious domains), Reviewing web traffic , Alerting suspicious activity etc.
 

#### Reference

- [National Institute  of Standards and Technology glossary](https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary)


