---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# CISSP Security Domains

Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) security domains help you understand how a security analyst's job duties can be organized into categories.

## Eight CISSP Security Domains 

### 1. Security and Risk Management

Focuses on defining security goals and objectives, risk mitigation, compliance, business continuity, and the law.   
For example, security analysts may need to update company policies related to private health information if a change is made to a federal compliance regulation such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, also known as HIPAA


### 2. Asset Security

Focuses on securing digital and physical assets. It's also related to the storage, maintenance, retention, and destruction of data.   
When working with this domain, security analysts may be tasked with making sure that old equipment is properly disposed of and destroyed, including any type of confidential information.

### 3. Security Architecture and Engineering

This domain focuses on optimizing data security by ensuring effective tools, systems, and processes are in place.   
As a security analyst, you may be tasked with configuring a firewall. A firewall is a device used to monitor and filter incoming and outgoing computer network traffic. Setting up a firewall correctly helps prevent attacks that could affect productivity.


### 4. Communication and Network Security

This domain focuses on managing and securing physical networks and wireless communications.    
As a security analyst, you may be asked to analyze user behavior within your organization.


### 5. Identity and Access Management

Identity and access management focuses on keeping data secure, by ensuring users follow established policies to control and manage physical assets, like office spaces, and logical assets, such as networks and applications.   
Validating the identities of employees and documenting access roles are essential to maintaining the organization's physical and digital security.   
For example, as a security analyst, you may be tasked with setting up employees' keycard access to buildings.



### 6. Security Assessment and Testing

This domain focuses on conducting security control testing, collecting and analyzing data, and conducting security audits to monitor for risks, threats, and vulnerabilities.  
Security analysts may conduct regular audits of user permissions, to make sure that users have the correct level of access.   
For example, access to payroll information is often limited to certain employees, so analysts may be asked to regularly audit permissions to ensure that no unauthorized person can view employee salaries.


### 7. Security operations

This domain focuses on conducting investigations and implementing preventative measures.   
Imagine that you, as a security analyst, receive an alert that an unknown device has been connected to your internal network.   
You would need to follow the organization's policies and procedures to quickly stop the potential threat.




### 8. Software Development Security

This domain focuses on using secure coding practices, which are a set of recommended guidelines that are used to create secure applications and services.   
A security analyst may work with software development teams to ensure security practices are incorporated into the software development life-cycle.   
If, for example, one of your partner teams is creating a new mobile app, then you may be asked to advise on the password policies or ensure that any user data is properly secured and managed.


## Attack Types

### Password Attack

An attempt to access password-secured devices, systems, networks, or data. Example: Brute Force, Rainbow table.
Password attacks fall under [Communication and Network security](#4-communication-and-network-security) domain.

### Social Engineering Attack

Social engineering attacks are related to the [security and risk management](#1-security-and-risk-management) domain.

### Physical Attack
A physical attack is a security incident that affects not only digital but also physical environments where the incident is deployed.

- Malicious USB cable
- Malicious flash drive
- Card cloning and skimming

Physical attacks fall under the [asset security](#2-asset-security) domain. 

### Cryptographic Attack
Affects secure forms of communication between a sender and intended recipient. Example: 
- Birthday
- Collision
- Downgrade
Cryptographic attacks fall under the [communication and network security](#4-communication-and-network-security) domain.


### Supply-chain attack
Targets systems, applications, hardware, and/or software to locate a vulnerability where malware can be deployed.   
Because every item sold undergoes a process that involves third parties, this means that the security breach can occur at any point in the supply chain. 

Supply-chain attacks can fall under several domains, [Security and Risk Management](#1-security-and-risk-management), [Security Architecture and Engineering](#3-security-architecture-and-engineering), [Security Operations](#7-security-operations) and more..


### Adversarial Artificial Intelligence
Adversarial artificial intelligence is a technique that manipulates [artificial intelligence and machine learning](https://www.nccoe.nist.gov/ai/adversarial-machine-learning)technology to conduct attacks more efficiently.   

Adversarial artificial intelligence falls under both the [communication and network security](#4-communication-and-network-security) and the [identity and access management](#5-identity-and-access-management) domains.


## Thread Actor Types

**Thread Actor** is any person or group who presents a security risk.

### Advanced peristent threats

APTs have significant expertise accessing an organization's network without authorization. APTs tend to research their targets (e.g., large corporations or government entities)  in advance and can remain undetected for an extended period of time. Their intentions and motivations can include:

- Damaging critical infrastructure, such as the power grid and natural resources
- Gaining access to intellectual property, such as trade secrets or patents


### Insider threats
Insider threats abuse their authorized access to obtain data that may harm an organization. Their intentions and motivations can include: 

- Sabotage
- Corruption
- Espionage
- Unauthorized data access or leaks 


### Hacktivists
Hacktivists are threat actors that are driven by a political agenda. They abuse digital technology to accomplish their goals, which may include: 

- Demonstrations
- Propaganda
- Social change campaigns
- Fame



## Hacker types

A hacker is any person who uses computers to gain access to computer systems, networks, or data. 

- Ethical Hacker : They follow a code of ethics and adhere to the law to conduct organizational risk evaluations. They are motivated to safeguard people and organizations from malicious threat actors.

- Semi-authorized hackers are considered researchers. They search for vulnerabilities but don’t take advantage of the vulnerabilities they find.

- Unethical Hacker : They are malicious threat actors who do not follow or respect the law. Their goal is to collect and sell confidential data for financial gain. 