---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Ethics in cybersecurity

Security ethics are guidelines for making appropriate decisions as a security professional.  
Being ethical requires that security professionals remain unbiased and maintain the security and confidentiality of private data. 


## Ethical concers and laws relate toc counterattacks

### International standpoint on counterattacks
The International Court of Justice (ICJ), which updates its guidance regularly, states that a person or group can counterattack if: 

- The counterattack will only affect the party that attacked first.
- The counterattack is a direct communication asking the initial attacker to stop.
- The counterattack does not escalate the situation.
- The counterattack effects can be reversed.

### United States standpoint on counterattacks 
In the U.S., deploying a counterattack on a threat actor is illegal because of laws like the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015, among others. You can only defend. The act of counterattacking in the U.S. is perceived as an act of vigilantism.  
A vigilante is a person who is not a member of law enforcement who decides to stop a crime on their own. 


## Ethical principles and methodologies

Because counterattacks are generally disapproved of or illegal, the security realm has created frameworks and controls—such as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad.

- **Confidentiality** means that only authorized users can access specific assets or data. Confidentiality as it relates to professional ethics means that there needs to be a high level of respect for privacy to safeguard private assets and data.

- **Privacy protection** means safeguarding personal information from unauthorized use. Personally identifiable information (PII) and sensitive personally identifiable information (SPII) are types of personal data that can cause people harm if they are stolen.

- **Laws** are rules that are recognized by a community and enforced by a governing entity. As a security professional, you will have an ethical obligation to protect your organization, its internal infrastructure, and the people involved with the organization.   
To do this:  
  - You must remain unbiased and conduct your work honestly, responsibly, and with the highest respect for the law. 
  - Be transparent and just, and rely on evidence.
  - Ensure that you are consistently invested in the work you are doing, so you can appropriately and ethically address issues that arise. 
  - Stay informed and strive to advance your skills, so you can contribute to the betterment of the cyber landscape. 