---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# Cybersecurity Tools


## Security information and event management (SIEM) tools

A **SIEM tool** is an application that collects and analyzes log data to monitor critical activities in an organization.  
SIEM tools provide a series of dashboards that visually organize data into categories, allowing users to select the data they wish to analyze.

A log is a record of events that occur within an organization's systems.


## Network protocol analyzers (packet sniffers)

A **network protocol analyzer**, also known as a **packet sniffer**, is a tool designed to capture and analyze data traffic in a network.  
Example: tcpdump, Wireshark


## Playbooks
A **playbook** is a manual that provides details about any operational action, such as how to respond to a security incident. Organizations usually have multiple playbooks documenting processes and procedures for their teams to follow.  

For example, consider the following scenario: You are working as a security analyst for an incident response firm.   
You are given a case involving a small medical practice that has suffered a security breach.   
Your job is to help with the forensic investigation and provide evidence to a cybersecurity insurance company.   
They will then use your investigative findings to determine whether the medical practice will receive their insurance payout. 

Example of playbook you might cosult :    

- **Chain of custody** playbook : Chain of custody is the process of documenting evidence possession and control during an incident lifecycle. As a security analyst involved in a forensic analysis, you will work with the computer data that was breached. You and the forensic team will also need to document who, what, where, and why you have the collected evidence.

- **Protecting and preserving evidence** playbook : Protecting and preserving evidence is the process of properly working with fragile and volatile digital evidence. As a security analyst, understanding what fragile and volatile digital evidence is, along with why there is a procedure, is critical. As you follow this playbook, you will consult the order of volatility, which is a sequence outlining the order of data that must be preserved from first to last. 


### Additional Resources

- [Threat Horizon Report](https://services.google.com/fh/files/blogs/gcat_threathorizons_full_sept2022.pdf) provides strategic intelligence for dealing with threats to cloud enterprise.

- [CISA list of open-source cybersecurity tools](https://www.cisa.gov/resources-tools/resources/free-cybersecurity-services-and-tools)